[Home](https://andre-ye.github.io) > [ECON 200 Navigation](https://andre-ye.github.io/uw/econ-200/navigation) > [Lecture Notes](https://andre-ye.github.io/uw/econ-200/navigation#lecture-notes) > Module 4 Lecture 10

## Module 4 Lecture 10
Andre Ye, 5/10/21

<br>

---

<br>

### Navigate
- [The Costs of Production](#the-costs-of-production)
  * [The Short and the Long Run in Economics](#the-short-and-the-long-run-in-economics)
  * [Fixed and Variable Costs](#fixed-and-variable-costs)
  * [Explicit and Implicit Costs](#explicit-and-implicit-costs)
  * [Economic and Accounting Profit](#economic-and-accounting-profit)
- [Production](#production)
  * [Average Product of Labor](#average-product-of-labor)
  * [Marginal Product of Labor](#marginal-product-of-labor)
  * [Graphs of Output and Marginal Product of Labor](#graphs-of-output-and-marginal-product-of-labor)

<br>

---

<br>

### The Costs of Production
- The basic activity of a firm is to use *inputs*, like workers, machines, and natural resources to produce *outputs* of goods and services.
- This process - turning inputs into outputs - is called **technology**.
- Improvement in the ability to turn inputs into outputs is a positive **technological change**.
- A firm's good is to maximize profits.
- **Total revenue**: the amount a firm receives from the sale of goods and services.
- **Total cost**: the amount a firm pays for inputs used to produce goods or services.

#### The Short and the Long Run in Economics
- **Short-run** - period of time in which at least one of a firm's inputs is fixed.
- Inputs are often simplified as labor and capital.
- In the **long run**, no inputs are fixed, and the firm can adopt new technology.

#### Fixed and Variable Costs
- **Variable costs**: costs that change as output changes.
- **Fixed costs**: costs that remain constant as output changes.
- In the long run, all the firm's costs are variable.
- **Total cost**; the sum of variable costs and fixed costs.

#### Explicit and Implicit Costs
- Economists like to consider all the opportunity costs of an activity (both explicit and implicit costs).
- **Explicit cost**: A post involving spending money
  - Usually easier to identify.
- **Implicit cost**: A non-monetary opportunity cost
  - Composed of forgone opportunities that could have generated revenue.

#### Economic and Accounting Profit
- Accounting profit: total revenue minus explicit costs.
- Economic profit: total revenue minus explicit costs and implicit costs.

<br>

---

<br>

### Production
- **Marginal product**: the increase in output generated by an additional unit of input.
- **Principle of marginal product**: marginal product of input decreases as the quantity of the input increases.
- **Average product**: total production divided by the number of workers.
- Marginal and Average Product are defined relative to some input, ceteris paribus.

#### Average Product of Labor
- Average of the marginal products of labor.

#### Marginal Product of Labor
- Marginal product curve passes through the maximum of the average product curve.

#### Graphs of Output and Marginal Product of Labor
- The output curve flattens out and the marginal product curve decreases because of the principle of diminishing returns.

<br>

---

<br>

[Back to top](#)
