[Home](https://andre-ye.github.io) > Letter to the Incoming TS Student

## Letter to the Incoming TS Student

I'm writing this post-TS letter - part self reflection, part utilitarian advice - on June 10th, 2021, one day after the last formal academic gathering of TS. Today, at six-thirty, the principal will host an end-of-year celebration to conclude three quarters of learning and growth. After then, TS will be over - and it's a bizarre feeling to experience. All things must come to an end, but of all things TS seems like it warps our conceptions of time in the most intruiging ways. I have grown so much and so quickly in this span of a few months, and the vacuum at its conclusion, the silence after the year-long storm, leaves me wanting and my sense of time distorted. Out of all the time in my life, it feels that I have spent the most and the least time under my learning at TS. Perhaps time is merely the vacant space residing in the vaccums left between significant markings of events, or perhaps it is represented by significance of development. I see so much ahead, and the forceful hand of time pushes me to encounter my vision of the future. But here, in this moment, I want to ponder and think about all that I see behind me - the experiences, learning, failures, struggles, and growth in the arc of my experience at the Transition School, to refeel the long nights writing essays to Rachmaninoff, the slow recovery from failure, the joy of discovery.

This year will likely be the only Transition School year that was completely online. Even despite the severe disappointment that the class of 2021 had never encountered on a daily basis the usual physical manifestations of schooling - listening to lectures in the classroom, studying in the lounge, eating lunch at the hub with friends - at TS, I found a community I was always looking for earlier, but had never found. I found brilliant teachers operating their craft of teaching in creative, critical, and adaptive ways I never had experienced before. I found an amazing principal and supporting staff who relentlessly worked to make TS a great experience even despite unprecedented challenges during the year. The Transition School is resilient, brilliant, and transformative in so many ways. I will always think of my year at TS as a period of significant metaphorphosis, of unfolding and coaxing the seed of mind into a sprouting bud - a dull green with the newness of an infant, inquisitive, curious, and possessing the necessary resources ot bloom with time.

I began the Transition School with a two-day orientation, beginning on September 25th, if my memory is faithful. I remember opening the Zoom link to the orientation meeting and being greeted with a set of unfamiliar faces, plotted in neat adjacent rows and columns, an unknowable physical distance from me. I was quick to form impressions of my peers - too pretentious, intelligent but maniacally antisocial, silent and unfriendly; it was a bad habit I had developed from years of resentment and unhappiness in middle school. When the discussion wandered towards the territory of "what is education?" and invariably towards the question pretentious teenagers like to discuss when they want to seem intelligent and deep - "what is the meaning of life?" - I anticipate these impressions imprinting themselves deeper. The ensuing conversation, however, was nothing like I had heard in various adolescent crowds; it was insightful, grounded, and provocative - novel developments in the history of discussion and discourse I had been exposed to. On the first day of Transition School, my immediate instincts and thoughts were challenged, stretched, and correspondingly reshaped. I would eventually find that this process occurs every day at the Transition School.

Biology wasn't a subject I had much predilection for; rather, I held the prejudice that biology was a subject concerned with memorizing long names and factoids to wittily recite to peers to seem intelligent. On the Fall Quarter midterm, I received a grade of 78% - a C; it was the lowest grade I had received on any exam in recent memory. I was devastated - I spent the entire morning sulking, and one my newfound classroom proximity associates attempted to comfort me that morning (to no avail). I visited the biology instructor for office hours soon afterwards, however - and she set me upon a path towards growth, of utilizing failures as steps towards successes. The notion of growth-mindedness has been repeated to students beginning in elementary (frankly, sometimes at a very shallow level) that it becomes cliche and another truism to give rhetorical service to. With the support of my amazing biology teacher, though, I recovered. Looking forward does not mean 'forgetting' failures - it means using failure as an opportunity to expose areas for growth and understanding. I grew to find biology fascinating, and much more than the rote memorization I had thought it to be prior. I finished the Fall Quarter with the highest final grade in the class, and likewise with the midterms and finals in Winter Quarter. As of the time I am writing this letter, I am performing research at a biology-based lab studyhing applications of deep learning on addressing the pathobiology of kidney diseases. 
I have grown, through Transition School Biology, to appreciate biology and scientific paths of inquiry broadly. From this class, I take away the lesson of understanding and embodying growth-mindedness, not merely as a rote truism - a token of a new culture of mindfulness - but as an honest means to prevent unnecessary psychological distress and to achieve sustainable success in the future.

Indeed, classes at TS have changed not only my immediate understandings of subjects, but my understanding of meta-learning - of honing the processes of learning, of questioning and finding answers, of attempting to better understand one's condition and identity in a sea of ideas, identities, and institutions. I have much to thank Dr. Zink for; her teaching is both gentle and provocative, and it is in English where I began the process of shedding immediate visceral reactions to texts or ideas - in which I embraced each text as a vessel of ideas I could accept or augment, and in which I learned to embrace complexities and continuity over binaries.
Dr. Reagan's classes especially evoke a certain nostalgia; analyzing works of art, thinking about history in new ways, discussing readings and ideas. Reese's math class, too, taught me a certain mathematical humility, curiosity, and courage to navigate mathematics as an inquisitive explorer, rather than forcefully handheld by a textbook. Transition School has shown me the value in asking 'why?'; while I admit I often cannot answer these questions, internalizing and understanding the value of the question is the necessary spirit upon which potential answers or developments will be found.



Sincrerely,

Andre Ye
June 10th, 2021

